[Music]
what if you stopped washing your hair
for a year washing our hair regularly is
the basic hygiene tip we all know from
childhood but have you ever wondered
what would happen if you stopped this
lifelong ritual obviously there aren't
that many people who are willing to test
it on themselves but thankfully experts
already have an idea of how your hair
would react to this bold experiment want
to know all the details thing keep
watching but first make sure to hit that
subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side okay so let's say you
decided that enough is enough and you
can no longer spend hours every day
trying to make your hair look buff from
now on no more shampoos conditioners or
any other hair products so what's gonna
happen next
well the first couple of days of your
experiment would introduce you to an
all-natural hair moisturizer known as
sebum as you let your scalp deal with
everything on its own your hair
follicles would start producing more
sebum just to make sure that your hair
is properly hydrated as a result your
hair would become greasy and oily if you
have straight hair you can expect this
effect in less than five days but if
you're one of those lucky ones who have
gorgeous curls it can take up to ten
days for you to see serious dirt and oil
buildup in your hair
however according to dr. Angela Lam an
experienced and board-certified
dermatologist several weeks of not
washing your hair can lead to a complete
hair breakthrough believe it or not
there's a chance that from a greasy and
not so pleasant looking scalp your hair
would turn into healthy and shiny
strands of course everything depends on
your hair type and your scalps condition
but in general if after a month of this
no shampoo policy your hair still looks
like an oily mess it's very unlikely
that this magical transformation would
actually happen after a little over a
month without shampoo you'd have to face
another problem the stench people who
get to this stage of no hair washing
usually say that it's kind of like a
strong sour milk odor that follows you
everywhere you go the thing is at this
point of the experiment your hair starts
to trap moisture you know what loves
moisture bacteria and these little nasty
buggers would give your scalp of let's
say unforgettable scent additionally you
might notice a higher influence of
pollution on your unwashed hair and
scalp stylist Susanna Roman confirms
this to saying that it's actually our
skin and hair that gets exposed to
pollution the most so dust smoke and any
other pollutants you can think of would
feel completely at home and you're
already greasy and oily hair all this
would lead to itching irritation and
major discomfort
but if you think that's the worst that
can get think again several months of no
hair washing can result in not only a
nasty stinky look but also occasional
paint especially if you wear your dirty
hair in a bun you see tight ponytails or
buns pull on your scalp which irritates
the nerve endings around your hair
follicles plus oily hair is way heavier
than frequently washed strands which has
even more pressure on those nerve
endings so the outcome is always the
same an itchy sore scalp and even
frequent headaches and as you come
closer to the six or eight month mark of
the experiment another problem would
arise ingrown hairs and as always it's
all thanks to oil and dirt buildup in
your hair nonetheless it's not the only
issue that can come up after eight
months of your new shampoo free
lifestyle what's even scarier is that
your hair can easily stop growing
completely from all the damage that dirt
oil and pollutants have done to it
nevertheless this is all still pretty
tolerable until you enter the eleventh
or twelfth month of quitting shampoo of
course each case is different but
experts still suggest that a year
without rinsing your hair with water or
at least using conditioner from time to
time
traps bacteria in the hair follicles and
causes an infection known as
folliculitis another possible surprise
towards the end of the experiment is a
severe case of dandruff in some cases
all of these processes can start way
earlier so as you can see throwing your
shampoo out the window isn't that great
of a decision after all
or is it all kinds of people including
take that singer Gary Barlow who by the
way claims to have not washed his hair
for 14 whole years say that going no
shampoo dramatically changed their hair
for the better and made it way healthier
author and journalist Susan Elkin talked
about her own experience with quitting
shampoo for five years
according to her during the first stages
as your hair is adjusting you should be
patient and help your hair by brushing
it often brushing distributes the oil
along your hair follicles and removes
all the dirt and dust another tip that
she stands by is rinsing your hair with
warm water while massaging the scalp
about twice a week it helps to keep the
scalp clean and get rid of oil buildup
more effectively needless to say Susan
Elkin isn't the only fan of removing
shampoo from her daily haircare routine
in fact there's a whole movement called
no poo that encourages people to stop
using shampoos for good and the
reasoning behind it is completely
logical the strong chemicals that most
shampoos contain are known to strip our
hair of its natural oil which actually
damages it that's why no poo adherents
suggest washing your hair with more
natural products like baking soda apple
cider vinegar or just plain water baking
soda for example is extremely effective
at removing dirt dust and oil buildup
from your hair leaving it shiny and
clean if you want to try this method
dissolve one tablespoon of baking soda
and a cup of water until the gritty
texture disappears then simply apply it
to your hair and gently massage your
scalp don't worry if you don't see any
foam baking soda doesn't really lather
so don't focus on that and just wash
your hair as you would with your regular
shampoo after that's done simply rinse
your hair with water and you're good the
downside of this natural method is that
baking soda can dry out your scalp
especially if your hair isn't naturally
oily and that's the part where apple
cider vinegar comes in handy as a
natural moisturizer it's a perfect
natural conditioner for anybody who has
dry hair and scalp the best way to use
it is after washing with baking soda
just pour a mix of apple cider vinegar
and water through your hair and rinse it
with water one more time however all
these products aren't not necessary
simple water can do the trick as well
this method is more preferable for
people with a normal scalp no poo
followers suggest giving it a month to
see whether your hair will adjust to
this new cleaning technique what you
have to do is rinse your hair with warm
water and massage your scalp exactly
like you would with shampoo this will
get all the oil out of your hair no poo
adherents say that you shouldn't stop
the experiment if it didn't work the
first couple of times your hair is still
figuring out this new method and need
some time to get used to it according to
no poo proponents the first week of
going without shampoo is the toughest
but it does get easier with time
and the final thing you'll need if
you're planning on joining the no poo
team has a good boar bristle brush
remember Susan Elkins advice about
brushing your hair often to distribute
the oil along its follicles that's
exactly it
more bristle brushes are the best for
this job because they have a similar
texture to human hair running such a
brush through your hair has tons of
benefits from providing great helping
styling to reducing those annoying split
ends
not bad for not properly washing your
hair for a couple of days right so maybe
this brave experiment is worth a try
after all but what about you would you
like to give this no shampoo challenge
ago let us know down in the comments
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
you